Minutes from the 2022-02-07 panel meeting (#206)
solid/authentication-panel: meetings/2022-02-07.md

    -  access control level: (ACP has a mechanism for this) the user may add policies in their access control resources to control who the trusted OPs are
-  TH: we want to find a good balance between UX and security. Allowing to trust any OP for some data is fine, but it's sort of overkill if the user need to manually trust each OP. Day one, already WebID with multiple IdP
-  AC: This is a fundamental question. One pattern which exists out there is to have adaptative mode. If you typically log if from a certain place and time, and you suddenly log in from a very different place at unusual time, then you have additional poof of identity to provide comapred to a typical login.
-  WT: On both the operational and AC level, the OP can be restricted. However, from a UX and extensibility standpoint, if an app needs to add issuers manually to the allowlist of issuers, that's problematic. If a class of issuers (e.g. OIDC federations) would be defined, then it would be a better UX/DX.

> -  AC: Federation seems indeed like a good fit for that use case. Federation is a different flavor of decentralization, with some centralized decision-making. Digita could certify a group of OP, and allow the OPs based on this. Then, the validation can bleed into the user experience by sgiving additional info in the UI. A third party (the federated authority) ends up certifying the OP, which improves the trust model. Another way for discovery is to extend OP metadata (.well-know/openid-coniguration). A federation certifying OPs would be a good model in your case. This certification process could also apply to clients (apps). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  AC: Federation seems indeed like a good fit for that use case. Federation is a different flavor of decentralization, with some centralized decision-making. Digita could certify a group of OPs, and allow certain OPs based on this. Then, the validation can bleed into the user experience by giving additional info in the UI. A third party (the federated authority) ends up certifying the OP, which improves the trust model. Another way for discovery is to extend OP metadata (.well-known/openid-configuration). A federation certifying OPs would be a good model in your case. This certification process could also apply to clients (apps). 
```
